Hey, Brian. Hey, everyone. Hey. Hey. Thanks for watching here on YouTube live or after the fact.
Yeah, let's kick it off. Hello, and welcome to Python Bytes, where we deliver Python news and headlines directly to your earbuds. This is episode 442, recorded July 28, 2025. I'm Michael Kennedy.
and I'm Brian Ockman you can connect with us and the show over on Mastodon or on Bluesky you can find the links at the top of the show notes to all the different accounts for me, Brian, and the show on those various places if you want to be part of the live show as I know some of you I can see now are, then join us usually Monday, 10am Pacific time on YouTube, pythonbytes.fm/live, that'll take you there And if there's a live episode going here, and even like point out, hey, we're live right now and here's how you find us.
So we appreciate all the live interactions.
It makes the show better, we think.
Yeah.
And yeah, so support all of our work, Brian, through his three courses.
You got three courses right now?
Yeah.
Python test.code?
Yeah, three or four, something like that.
Beautiful.
And obviously, the course is over at Talk Python.
Got a bunch of them.
And I have more to say about that later, actually.
So some very cool things coming there.
And with that, yeah, let's-- oh, let me check one thing really quick here.
No?
Out in the audience, they say my mic might be operating.
But this--
making noise?
Yeah.
Well, then we're on track.
We're on track.
And again, welcome to the live version, folks.
Brian, what's our first item?
Well, I was going to talk about, which button do we push?
That one?
Okay.
I wanted to talk about open source security.
Actually, security with respect to open source projects.
And this is something that Seth Larson likes to talk about.
He's the security dude at, isn't he?
Does some security for.
Yeah, this is official title.
security dude at the psf security dude uh so uh he's got an article open source security work isn't
isn't special um but it kind of is but it's kind of not so the discussion is around how we one of the amazing things about open source work is you can you can have contributors from around around different places you can have community can people helping with the community building people helping with development docs tests uh funding all sorts of stuff people can help out uh security is one of those things and um but um but one of the one of the topics really is that seth brought up is that people kind of think of security as different because it's so important it's it's you don't you want you don't like if someone just randomly came in and like implemented a cool feature you can look at the code and go oh yeah that's kind of neat maybe we'll take it maybe we won't but if somebody wants to modify the security settings or do something around security with your project um uh either of the project the code project code itself or just the community around the project and maybe the website or something that would be a little scared a little scarier so how do we but it maybe it shouldn't be uh one of the things he brought up which is really is we kind of want the core maintainers to be like the people that only can muck with the security stuff, but they might not have the skills necessary. So maintainers, especially for smaller projects, are almost always experts in the domain of the project, but not necessarily security experts.
And that's definitely the case for me. I could see myself working on like the test code or some other like you know application but i'm not going to be the security expert so i would love to have somebody help out but there's issues around that right um so the article goes into discussing things like trust and different things uh one of the benefits like let's say we had security specialists that work on lots of different open source projects they could because they are understanding multiple projects they can see how other projects are triaging vulnerabilities and learn from different projects so we can we kind of want to spread that knowledge around between projects and um having security experts bounce around and be good just like we might have people that are good at py test jump around and help out with the test code on different projects we could have security experts but how do we trust them and it does talk about trust and one of the great things about how to trust people is to meet them like actually go to go to project go to like conferences and stuff and meet people in person um and i think that's important but i would say like for a project of mine um i would if somebody said they wanted to help out with the with the security aspect of it i would if they had a portfolio like you know if they're already a contributor to like flask i'd be like oh yeah they do security for flask they totally can work on this um so building and i think that's kind of where seth is going is to try to build up a community of trusted security people within the python open source community and i think that'd be really cool
so cool article yeah it's a neat idea like why should it be special right you don't don't restrict the looping aspects of your project to like these are the loop specialists
yeah well he did talk about like the scary bit of like that xz thing or whatever um where somebody kind of pushes into a project to help with something else and then they maybe are one of the fears is also is if a security person changes something i don't know if it's bad or good right because i'm not the security expert so um yeah dealing with that um but seth is like uh saying that that's not as big of a problem as as we might think and and part of the you know trusted people around it would help but yeah i would say diverging slightly
from Seth's article, it might be worth just asking your favorite code AI agent, like, hey, don't make any changes, but please do a security review of my code and explain the issues and see if it finds anything.
Or if somebody makes a change, you could say, hey, AI, what is the security impact of this change?
It's not necessarily 100% perfect, but it's sort of like double input accounting sort of thing, right?
Yeah.
But right.
Yeah, that'd be cool.
Also things like, for instance, if you've already hooked up Bandit to a project to do testing for security, like adding that to another project.
If you see another project that you work with, it doesn't make sense.
One of the aspects.
I don't know about that advice, Brian.
I don't know.
If someone or something is named Bandit, do you really want to put them in charge of security?
That sounds a little sus, honestly.
No, Bandit's a cool tool.
Sorry.
Had to do it.
The other topic that he brought up that I appreciated was we do talk about companies utilizing open source projects a lot.
So this is where it really makes sense.
A company is probably going to have some security experts, right?
A larger company.
Those people could look at the dependencies and contribute to those projects that don't live up to their security standards.
Go ahead and contribute to help make them better.
Yeah, that's a good point.
Instead of saying this thing's not secure enough for us, and we'll do a few PRs, and then it will be.
Yeah, exactly.
Exactly.
You know what probably is up to most people's standards is uv.
Yes.
Yeah, so uv is going in and a major release has been released of uv.
And so I want to give a shout out to that.
However, between the time I noticed that there have been three more releases.
So there's actually a 0.8.3 and.2 and.1 and so on.
There's a smaller change for those, but one that's notable is you can now get Python 3.14, which I know you're going to give a little shout out to.
The release candidate, you can get that through uv Python or just V and V and say that, right?
But the real notable one here is the big changes from 0.8.0.
So they say, hey, since 7, V7 back in April, I'm just going to like stomp on the 0 version.
What's this version 7?
No, just kidding.
0.7 back in April.
They've got a bunch of changes and improvements, but they could break some workflows.
So they've been kind of holding those all back, and they're letting them loose in 0.8.
So for example, this is the one I'm most excited about, the stabilization of a couple of uv Python install features, which is also uv, VE, and V if you don't have that version of Python installed.
Like that sort of implicitly happens.
So one that I was asking for, as soon as I saw that uv would install and manage Python, I'm like, is there a way that one of these could somehow become the Python instead of being stashed in some crazy path?
Could it be in tilde dot local slash bin, for example?
Well, yes now.
So the new change is it will install Python executables into a directory on the path.
So you can basically manage your system Python sort of via uvpython install.
I think that's pretty cool.
OK.
Is that what that default flag does?
Yes.
Yeah, if you put-- well, it used to have-- so it says if you uvpython install, now it installs a version of Python into a directory path by default.
So-- Oh, OK.
Yeah.
It does it.
Yeah, all right.
I think it just does it, which is pretty interesting.
I'm pretty psyched about it.
It registers Python versions with the Windows registry.
I imagine that means like-- Python's-- sorry, Windows is all about the registry.
So it probably means like other tools can discover that Python is installed and so on.
It has a little bit of safety about removing virtual environments if you're going to recreate them and things like that there's a bunch of other changes here so this is like a pretty serious release I guess the last one that's pretty interesting here maybe two even one is that uv build is now the default back end of uv in net which creates a project and a pipe project autom all and those kinds of things right remember it was hatchling and then we were like well is it hatchling like how is the build back in specified and so on. Well, now it's uv build.
That's cool. Yeah, it's very cool. I've been using uv build for a long time, but just typing uv space build instead of, you know, run that or whatever.
Okay. And then it also sets the uv tool bin directory on Docker images.
This is kind of a pain because if you install stuff, a lot of times the Docker images don't have access.
So if you're not paying attention, try to build a Docker image and then the next step in the build is run one of the tools you've installed to make something happen.
And it'll say, can't find this tool.
You're like, where is it?
You know what I mean?
So you got to set the path and so on.
So now you can, that's a little easier.
And so on and so on.
Like, look at all these changes for just a 0.7 to 0.8.
It's the second digit may as well be the major digit.
Yeah, that's why I was calling it version 7 and version 8.
Like these are just major versions.
They're just, they're just not committed to major.
Nice.
Anyway, fun stuff.
All right.
Back to you.
Okay.
I've got a bunch.
I couldn't decide.
So I'm going to do a bunch of extras.
So first up, Python 3.14 release candidate.
One is a go.
This is from Hugo.
So yeah, I guess that's it.
i guess this was six days ago so we could we may have already covered it last year or last week
don't remember so i don't think we covered i think this is this is new news and this is a big deal the release candidate means i mean beta is supposed to mean that it's yeah no no features no changes but now it's it's very very close to what we're going to see in october whenever it comes out so
people could maybe start testing with it and yeah so that's where the call to action comes is uh we strongly encourage maintainers of third-party python projects to prepare their projects for 3.14 um and uh and so if you've got ci pipelines for testing now's the time to turn it on if you're if your project doesn't work with 3.14 this is this is now that i mean actually you should brought it up sooner but you can bring it up now to say hey uh there's an issue and so there's a link to the python bug tracker um and then a list of all the different features and whatnot build changes incompatibilities on here so so that's first um so yeah please test everything uh and okay so that's my first item second item is f strings wtf so this is a um this is brought to us by arm and encouraged by Lucas Lange and Yuri.
Well, Yuri.
So this is, I took this.
Have you taken this yet, Michael?
No, I haven't.
And by the way, fstrings.wtf is the domain name.
Yes.
Yeah.
So this must, the top level domain of WTF.
Gotta love it.
So it's just a little quiz thing.
The first question is awesome.
So if you print F hello world, what do you get?
It really doesn't matter what you answer.
No, what you get is a linting error.
So it's, you know, correct.
f-strings are working exactly as you'd expect.
It's anything.
But you got to go through.
There's 26 questions.
And it's a little, it's tricky right off the bat.
Like, I know that the ellipses object is a thing.
so what happens if I do that well there's no there's no curly braces so of course it's just anyway um it's a fun thing I thought I was going to do great since I do f-strings all the time and I got like half of them right so I learned a lot in uh going through this so highly recommend all right well you're going to make me have to do it now as well yeah um so this is uh this is good plus some of the um some of the descriptions and uh and you know no phone funny business here with just a literal string with three dots.
There's some good commentary within the quiz also.
So I highly recommend.
Django turns 20.
Happy birthday, Django.
So we're going to link to birthday20djangoproject.com.
There's a whole bunch of celebrations planned.
And so this is kind of fun.
There's a map even of like if there's a party near you.
It's kind of fun.
if you're a Django person where's the closest one to me looks like in October 17th I could go down to San Francisco if I wanted to at PyBay anyway there's that MakeDocs redirect I've been using MakeDocs lately a lot for documenting a bunch of stuff I like MakeDocs and I'm actually doing some fairly big websites documentation websites with make docs works pretty good but sometimes i put things in the wrong place right um you and with hugo i've been used to um used to being able to to like move things around and have both links work like if you move it somewhere else but have the old link still work that doesn't work right off out of the box with make docs there's not a thing so there's a make docs redirects plugin that allows you to have the old name and the new name so i haven't actually tried this yet but i need it so i'm going to try it today yeah and my my last extra that i wanted to bring up is just an article that i enjoyed um called uh by patty carver saying i'm tired of talking about ai and um and actually even if you're not tired of tech talking about ai I think this is a good thing to read through because there's some things that I think that a lot of people are feeling.
Because I've heard a lot of, there's a lot of comments in here and reactions to comments.
Like, if you don't start now, you won't be able to find work soon.
That's scary, especially if I don't have time to work on this right now.
And I know that the commentary often is, well, you don't have time because you're not using AI to free up your time.
that's a tedious discussion but there's a I think that there's a there's a some of the cool reaction here is this just doesn't make sense we were telling people that AI is going to help them like pretty soon anybody off the street can be a coder with AI well if that's true then why is it so important for me to learn it today can't I learn it next week if I when they really need it And I don't agree with everything in this article, but there's some great logic in here.
I like it.
Plus great writing.
So that's all of my extras.
Awesome.
All right.
Let's see.
What have I got?
So I want to talk about Toads.
Let's project it.
Yeah.
Toad the Wet Sprocket.
By the way, one of the best bands from the 90s.
Toad the Wet Sprocket, it was amazing.
So this one comes to us from Will McGugan.
I see out in the audience, Will is providing the perfect transition here for us.
AI fatigue is very real.
Yes, I agree.
I agree, Will.
But he is also helping, contributing both to this.
Thank you, Will.
Yeah, thanks a lot, Will.
Yeah, this project called Toad, which originally was going to be called Textual Code, but became Toad, is an improvement on the terminal-based agentic AI sort of programming story.
So Claude Code and Gemini and all those types of things, they've got really pretty poor terminal experiences, even though that's their only user interface.
which is interesting.
Like, for example, if you resize the terminal after you get an output, it can screw up the formatting and stuff, which is weird.
All sorts of things.
So he came up with this cool project that has basically taken advantage of Textual to create a really nice terminal experience.
Oh, cool.
Yeah.
The idea is that it's supposed to be a universal front end for AI in the terminal.
And you can even go and watch a little demo that he's put together, uv run Toad, which is pretty fun.
And I think this is an agentic example.
He says, write a Python code to display the Mandelbrot set.
And then boom, just off it goes.
Write it in the terminal with code formatted nicely and syntax highlighting and all that.
Then you can say, run it.
You can say, explain it.
You get the modal dialogues.
all the things you would get from textual right so will says this is not yet a thing you can just go grab but down at the bottom you can say toad isn't quite ready for public release it remains a tad pole for now incubating in a private little pond of a repository but you know he's all about voss so it will be out soon enough in the meantime you can there's ways to get early access to it for example sponsor him so cool project will i just give that a shout out yeah definitely um i always pay attention if will's doing something exactly so i guess you probably don't have any extras since you just talked about your extras right i do yeah i don't have any extra you're gonna have you have an extra extras let's say that no more extra extras so uh i'm gonna be releasing a new course really soon. So make sure you are a friend of the show. That could be Python Bytes or Talk Python gets a little bit, send a few more emails over there that might be talking about it. So if you go to talkpython.fm, click on newsletter, share your name and email, and I'll let you know. But very soon I have an excellent course coming out I think people are really going to enjoy.
All right, with that, shall we joke, make a joke?
Yes.
If one joke were good, wouldn't two be better?
Sure, you'd think, yeah.
You would think.
Depends on the joke.
That's true for a while until at some point you're like, okay, either I'm tired of jokes or my cheeks are whatever, stop.
All right, so here's the first one.
What are the heaviest objects in the universe?
And it's got this general relativity sort of space-time curve continuum thing.
So we've got the sun, and it bends space-time a little.
The neutron star, obviously, is super big, much deeper than the sun.
The black hole is almost a singularity.
But what is more singularity than black holes?
Node modules.
The node underscore modules folder from when you create a new project.
It's just like I tried to use two libraries, and npm installed them or Yarn installed them.
And why are there 250 things in Node modules?
Pretty fun.
This is good.
This is a short little one.
But even better, we have Azure Cloud Appy.
Cloud architect, senior platform engineer.
This is a very fun video.
and I'm not sure if I got the right link. I have to update that potentially. Anyway, this comes from us I believe this is from Programmers Are Also Human and it is a six minute video that is just hilarious.
This dude is on fire. I love all those videos.
Yeah, he's the same guy that did the vibe coding YouTube jokes and so this is a YouTube video, obviously. We're not going to go through it, but
if you need a laugh, watch it.
Let's read the titles of the books on this desk, though.
Go for it.
So we've got how to do cloud and what?
How to move back on-prem.
Right next to each other.
Yeah, exactly.
We also have introduction to guesstimates.
Introduction to guesstimates.
And then he has a coffee cup that says DevOps agile with root access.
Yeah.
But yeah, it's really good.
He's like, and it's in this Einstein type of character that also has a bit of a Greek accent, I believe.
It's really good.
They send us our cloud bills in scientific notation because they're so big.
He also gets a phone call during the interview and he answers it and he goes, what?
No, no, it's probably DNS.
Man, it's always DNS.
He goes, yeah, this guy just called.
Somehow he has root access, but I don't know who that was.
Just go.
It's really good.
There's a, if you like one liners, that's just like a string of them.
It's great.
Yeah.
Very good.
Well,
might be not safe for work.
Not because there's anything explicit in there, but you're not going to not be able to, you're not going to be able to watch it and not laugh out loud.
So.
Exactly.
Yeah.
If people, if you're in a serious environment, you might need to wait till lunch.
Cool.
All right.
They don't need to wait till lunch to listen to our show.
No, we're not that funny.
Fair enough.
All right.
Thank you, everyone, for watching, for being here.
Talk to you all later.
Bye, Brian.
Bye.